Overview………………………………………..
1. Business Problem ………………………………………..
2. Objectives ………………………………………..
3. Purpose of the Database ………………………………………..
4. Description of the Data ………………………………………..
5. Identifying the Database………………………………………..
6. Scope ………………………………………..
7. Scale ………………………………………..
8. How the System Handle Growth ………………………………………..
9. ERD Diagram and Schema ………………………………………..
10. Business Queries ………………………………………..
11. Code and Database ………………………………………..
Overview
1. Business Problem
The business problem is to successfully create a real estate product that will provide the best customer 
experience. “Continuous efforts to “disrupt” the multi-trillion real estate industry have been consistently 
failing. Simply reiterating the fact that there are tons of inefficiencies to be addressed is not sufficient. 
Instead, diving deeper into the reasons behind the current state of property market might be a useful 
mental exercise for real estate innovators, as it might help to find the right approach to the right 
stakeholders.” -workmobileEmpirically, successful products have one to three gamechanging features, dozens of features that 
neutralize showstoppers, and very few features that are distractions. 
2. Objectives
As a technical business consultant to local agents, our goal is to create the best customer experience 
with a scalable database that will give a technical edge in addition to game-changing features. Here 
customers are segmented into 3 categories as “Buyer, Seller and Realtor” and their pain points 
presented below :
REAL ESTATE
Buyer :
- Wants take longer, more research, ------Physiological
- Best option for mortgage, insurance, title, attorney, ----End to End Experience
- Pay the Least House Price
Seller
- Wants take shorter transaction time ----- Ibuyer or Client
- Buy (Upgrade, Downgrade) without Sell ---- End to End
- Sell House for Top Dollar, Pay the Lease Commission
Realtor
-- Earn the most commision preferably from both selling and buying.
– Provide the best experience via multiple selection to delight both buyers and sellers : Ibuyer -- Real 
Estate Firm Buy, Power Buyer -- Seller Buy without Selling, Buy with All Cash Offer, Rent with Option to 
Buy
3. Purpose of the Database
Create a Real Estate Database : In real estate data is everything. As a result a database that is scalable, 
efficient and effective is a must. Here our database will be coming from an open source and manually 
created data. This will enable our business to get the most accurate property sales, cost and customer 
data. We will initially create SALE_HISTORY, TAX_DETAILS, FLOODS, HIGHLIGHTS, PROPERTY, 
PROPERTY_CATEGORY, CRIME_IN_AREA, PROPERTY_TYPE, LOCATION, CITY, PUBLIC_TRANSPORT, 
COUNTRY and STATE data later to be incorporated additional information.
4. Description of the Data
These data represents 14 tables for real estate transaction in the US that are relational with each other 
via Primary and Foreign Keys. In the following section we highlighted how those data are related with 
each other on ERD diagram. Most frequently used function will be to additional data point for a better 
picture for buyers. We aim to provide more comprehensive information compared to Zillow, Redfin, 
Compass and Realtor.com. For example we added “HIGHLIGHTS” table data to inform customers in 
additional ways.
5. Identifying the Database
We will work with a Relational Database because we will mainly work with structured data that require 
high level of data integrity and should be ACID It will also provide indexing capabilities, which results in 
faster query response times and secure transactions. Finally, being a simple and flexible model that 
provides normalization, a SQL database – preferably MySql will be an effective solution to work with real 
estate data.
Sources : 
https://workmobile.today/what-made-real-estate-industry-lagging-behind-in-embracing-innovations-2/
https://www.defmacro.org/2013/09/26/products.html
A gamechanger - People will want to buy your product because of this feature.
A showstopper - People won’t buy your product if you’re missing this feature, but adding it 
won’t generate demand.
A distraction - This feature will make no measurable impact on adoption.
6. Scope
We will initially focus on only buyers to narrow the scope (to be scaled later to seller and realtors when 
needed.) 
7. Scale
MySQL is among the monolithic databases with vertical scaling. With the CAP theorem the trade-off 
choice will be preferring “Consistency and Availability”. 
8. How the System Handle Growth
As we will be focusing on local data we would be able to handle scaling challenges via cluster or sharding 
proxy in terms of system design. We will go with MySQL knowing those limitations.
9. ERD Diagram and Schema
TABLES
Below are the tables we created for this database.
• SALE_HISTORY
• TAX_DETAILS
• FLOODS
• HIGHLIGHTS
• PROPERTY
• PROPERTY_CATEGORY
• CRIME_IN_AREA
• PROPERTY_TYPE
• LOCATION
• CITY
• PUBLIC_TRANSPORT
• COUNTRY
• STATE
Below is Crow’s Foot Notation to help understand how we designed our database via “Many”, “One and 
ONLY One”, “Zero or One”, “One or Many” and “Zero or Many”.
Source : https://canvas.harvard.edu/courses/96438/pages/week-5-entity-relationship-diagramsmaterials (https://www.vivekmchawla.com/erd-crows-foot-relationship-symbols-cheat-sheet/)

